hey welcome back so in the last lesson
we learned how to use data types and
functions to implement a business logic
of our smart contract in doing so we
discovered some areas for improvement
for example we need to confirm that the
amount of ether supplied in the
transaction is equal to the purchase
price we also need to ensure that the
buyer has received the item before the
seller can withdraw the funds function
modifiers are two common ways of solving
these problems two of the most common
modifiers are require and the assert
require style exceptions are used to
ensure that valid conditions exist in
your smart contract before proceeding
they can be used to validate inputs and
state variables and they can also
validate return calls from other
functions or contracts optionally they
can return a message back to the caller
as well you can see an example on the
right side of the screen where we
ensured that the amount of ether
supplied in the transaction is an even
number and if it's not we can return a
message even value required asserts on
the other hand are used to test for
internal errors they can check for
invariants and properly functioning code
should never reach a failing assert
statement taking a look at this example
we have a function that sends half of
the amount of ether supplied to the
address specified so in a perfect world
when this execute correctly we execute
this line where we transfer half of the
value then we use the assert to ensure
that the balance of the contract is
equal to what it was when we started
minus half of the value that was
transferred to the address specified so
the thing about this is is if that
transfer executes successfully this
asserts always going to resolve to true
what we're using it for in this case is
to test for the fact that the transfer
may have failed and if it failed this
asserts no longer going to be true which
is going to raise the assert exception
so it sounds like asserts and requires
are very similar and they are so let's
talk about how they differ and that's
going to help you understand when to use
each the EVM or aetherium virtual
machine will perform a revert operation
for require style exceptions while it
will execute an invalid operation for
search style exceptions in either case
it's going to revert all the changes
made to the state this is important
because the operation didn't complete
successfully so we don't really know
what the proper state should be so the
only option that the evm has at this
point is to revert everything back to
the state that it was in before it
started a search style exceptions are
going to consume all the available gas
for that transaction
whereas require style exceptions won't
they'll stop consuming gas as soon as
they're triggered for this reason it
means that triggering an assert style
exception can be very expensive to the
consumer of the or the caller of the
smart contract that's why typically you
only want to use the asserts inside of
your unit tests on your test network and
rely on the require statements to catch
exceptions
whenever the contract is in operation
let's take a look now at the functions
in our smart contract and we can see how
to use modifiers to improve the code
quality ensure proper operation and I
think it'll make the use of modifiers a
little more clear for you the first one
we're going to look at is our add item
function that allows us to add an item
to the online marketplace I think it's a
good idea to ensure that the price is
greater than zero I think we can also
add an assertion to check if the length
of our items array did in fact increase
when the item was added so we can add
this required to validate that the price
is greater than zero and then we can
also create a variable called initial
length to get the length of the items
array before we start and then we'll use
the assert at the end to validate that
the length has increased by one so it's
worth noting here that we can implement
the validation on the price in the
client side app as well I think it's a
good idea as catching the error there
will be much easier to do and we can do
so without consuming any gas we're still
going to include it here though as a
backup to cover any scenarios where our
smart contract is executed outside of
our application UI
in our by item function we should
validate that the amount of ether
included in the transaction is equal to
the item price that's going to ensure
that an item can't be bought for less
than the sellers asking price so we can
add a require that specifies message
that value is equal to the item price
for that item from the array
remember that message dot value is a
constant variable provided tells us how
much ether was sent along with the
transaction our ship item function needs
to ensure that an item can be shipped
only if the items been sold so we can
require that the sold property for that
item is equal to true our receive item
function needs to check for two things
the item has to be shipped before it can
be received and only the buyer can mark
the item is received so we'll add a
require statement validating that the
ship status is true and another require
validating that the message sender is
equal to the etherion the address of the
party who executed to buy item function
the final check I want to make is to
ensure that only the seller can withdraw
the funds from the sale of their item
and they can only do so once the buyer
has confirmed they received the item and
we'll do that with two more require
statements one validating that the
address calling the function is the same
as the address that posted the item for
sale and one validating that the
received property of this item is set to
true so let's jump into our code editor
and see how these functions look when we
add them to our smart contract
so I've got my solidity smart contract
file open and again that came from the
contracts folder within my app project
directory and we'll start with our add
item function we'll add a require
statement to validate that the price is
greater than zero we'll add a new
variable that's an unsigned integer
named initial length and set that equal
to the length of our current array and
then we'll add our assert statement
after we try to push the new item on to
the array that validates that the new
array length for the items array is
equal to the original length plus one
for our by item function we want to
ensure that the amount of either
supplied is equal to the item price so
we'll add the require statement to
validate that for our ship item function
we want to verify that the item has been
sold so we'll add our require statement
checking that the sold property is set
to true our receive item function needs
to verify that the item has been shipped
and verify that the only one who can
mark this as received is the buyer so
we'll add the require statements to
validate both of those conditions and
finally our claim funds function needs
to validate that only the seller can
withdraw the funds and only after the
items been marked received by the buyer
so we'll provide to require statements
validating that both of those conditions
are true well in this video we learned
how we can use function modifiers to
ensure our functions are executed in
their desired behavior doing so helps us
prevent our contract from being misused
whether that's intentionally or
inadvertently another important
component in smart contracts is logging
logging allows us to see how and when
our functions are called as well as what
parameters were supplied in the next
video you're gonna learn how to emit
events to do just that I'll see you
there